hi welcome today we're starting a new
class and it's going to be called Bible
matters and this is the essential
question that we're asking ourselves
throughout this class does the Bible
matter to us today living in the 21st
century now I know there are some of you
out there who are saying of course the
Bible matters the Bible is the inerrant
Word of God and so it does matter even
you asking the question makes me want to
click the stop button and not listen to
you anymore I understand that and there
are some others of you out there who are
saying no the Bible is not the Word of
God it was written by human beings who
live some 2,000 to 3,000 years ago who
were dealing with their own problems
problems that have nothing to do with
what we are going through today I mean
the authors of the Bible they're not
thinking oh how do you how do you treat
one another when it comes to tanks or
missiles or how do you use things like
flip video and post it up on to youtube
or the Raven foundation website I mean
people aren't thinking about this as
their writing the Bible so it doesn't
have anything to do with our modern
lives so wish to which I would say to
both of you yes and and no I mean
whenever somebody says the Bible is the
inerrant Word of God I think an
appropriate question to ask is what do
you mean by that how is the Bible the
inerrant Word of God I think in order to
answer that question I would posit to
you this the Bible is the Word of God in
that it tries to explain something about
what it means for God to be God and also
what it means for humans to be humans
and it does so it tells us what it means
to be human in very beautiful ways and
also in very
ugly ways it shows us what it means to
be human in all of our goodness and in
part of our not so goodness now those of
you who are saying the Bible doesn't
have anything to do with us today well
the people who wrote the Bible were
dealing with different issues than we
are dealing with today but what the
authors of the Bible are trying to do is
to lay down some basic principles some
universal principles about what it means
to be human and these principles if the
Bible matters at all are relevant to us
today so does the Bible matter is the
question we are going to be struggling
with now lastly what I want to discuss
in this class is the word post modernity
now if this word I'm sure that you've
heard it before if it intimidates you
you're not alone I'm also intimidated by
this word and so what I want to do is
drop it down so whenever I hear somebody
using this word I kind of get the sense
that they have no idea what they're
talking about and so if you get the
sense that I have no idea what I'm
talking about that's okay because nobody
knows what this word means post
modernity I think it means after the
modern but aren't we always in the
modern I mean isn't this modern times
right now the present isn't this modern
so how are we post the present time I
like I don't know I have no idea what
that means but what was the modern world
what is this term postmodern retrying to
get out what was the modern world was
the modern world the age of science was
at the Ray age of rationalism did we
have this kind of view starting in the
18th century that science could tell us
everything there is to know about the
world and now somehow we've gotten
ask that so that this view of scientism
that science can tell us everything
there is to know about the world we no
longer trust that is it trying to say
that rationalism isn't as rational as we
thought it was isn't as true as we
thought it was and so somehow we have to
get beyond that and that's what post
modernity is pointing towards I mean you
you see this you see this today in
phrases like truth is relative right
well that's a truth statement about the
relativity of truth it's this it's this
truth is relative as a statement that
kind of collapses upon itself and you
will also hear another one like there is
no meaning in the world well that's a
meaningful statement about the lack of
meaning in the world and so it's this
kind of it collapses on itself again so
where do we find truth and meaning in
the postmodern world how are we going to
find this well I think that these are
some of the same issues that the people
who are writing the Bible are trying to
deal with the postmodern world really
isn't bringing us anything new it's
struggling with the same issues that
humans have always struggled with and
maybe there is some guidance with in
science and also within our sacred
traditions so that's kind of how that's
the introduction into our class I hope
that you'll continue to join me so that
you can tell me where you think that I
may go wrong or where you think that I
may be on the right track this will be a
fascinating discussion for me and I hope
that you'll enjoy it too so I hope
you'll join me next time when we talk
about the foundation of the Bible the
book of Genesis so till then take care
of yourself bye bye